Getting Ready for Class
While you are waiting for class to begin, please take a few minutes to set up your local work environment.
Step 1: Set Up Your GitHub.com Account
For this class, we will use a public account on GitHub.com. We do this for a few reasons:
We don't want you to "practice" in repositories that contain real code.
We are going to break some things so we can teach you how to fix them. (therefore, refer to the bullet above)
You can set up your free account by following these steps:
1. Access GitHub.com and click Sign up.
2. Choose the free account.
3. You will receive a verification email at the address provided.
4. Click the link to complete the verification process.
If you already have an account, verify that you can visit github.com within your organization's network.
GitHub is designed to run on the current versions of all major browsers. In particular, if you use Microsoft's Internet
Explorer (IE), you must be using the latest version. Take a look at our list of supported browsers.
Step 2: Install Git
Git is an open source version control application. You will need Git installed for this class.
You may already have Git installed so let's check! Open Terminal if you are on a Mac, or PowerShell if you are on a
Windows machine, and type:
$ git --version
You should see something like this:
$ git --version
git version 2.11.0
Anything over 2.0 will work for this class!
Downloading and Installing Git
If you don't already have Git installed, you can download Git at www.git-scm.com.
If you need additional assistance installing Git, you can find more information in the ProGit chapter on installing Git:
http://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git .
Where is Your Shell?
Now is a good time to create a shortcut to the command line application you will want to use with Git:
If you are working on Windows, we recommend Git Bash which is installed with the Git package, so that you can
follow along with the facilitator who will be using Bash.
If you are working on a Mac or other Unix-based system, you can use the built-in Terminal application.
